>> Maximiliano Firtman: So pre-requisites,
just a web app development
experience will work.
So if you have already created
an app in any platform,
it doesn't matter any library, if you're
a backend developer it's gonna be fine.
If you just understand the basics of HML,
CSS, and JavaScript, you're good to go.
Some basic JavaScript,
we will write some JavaScript, but
it's not going to be a big deal.
You will have also some
snippets to copy and
paste in case you don't wanna write it.
It's a good idea to have a Chromium
desktop web browser that I'm pretty sure
that if you're a developer,
you already have.
It can be Google Chrome,
Microsoft Edge, Opera, or another one.
Not because we will focus on Chrome,
because it has the best
debugging tools for
PWAs ever compared with Firefox or Safari.
It's much better.
So of course,
if you have Safari on the Mac or
if you have Firefox on any platform, it's
fine and we will see how that works there.
But for debugging purposes,
probably we will focus on Chromium.
A code editor,
I will use VS Code but of course,
you're free to use whatever you want.
Some optionals that I will explain later.
If you're on a Mac,
you may wanna install Xcode.
I mean, it's not mandatory but we will use
that for simulating in iOS and iPadOS.
So I will show you how you can use
the iOS simulator, the iPadOS simulator.
Also, you have the visionOS simulator if
you want, that's for the Apple Vision Pro.
And you can see and
test your PWA there, okay?
So I will show you how to do that.
And also optional, Android Studio.
For the same thing, this is not macOS,
it can be macOS, Windows, or Linux.
Also, even Chromebooks depends
on the Chromebook you have.
You can install Android Studio, and
I will show you later how to enable and
set up Android emulators.
So then you can also test even
if you don't have a device,
you can test on those operating systems
and see how your web app is installed.
How your web app works offline and
how your web app integrates with
your operating system, okay?
But that's optional,
if you don't have it or if you don't
wanna install it right now, it's fine.
So this is the repo that we
will use today, github.com,
Firtman that's my last name,
frontendmasters-pwa.
>> Maximiliano Firtman: There,
have in mind there are several branches.
The main branch that you have actually has
the final code, so here I am in the repo.
So if you're in the main branch,
this is actually a final code,
that's something that
we will get at the end.
So if we wanna start from scratch and
follow along the course,
go to the starting-code branch,
and you can fork this one or
just download the Zip file and
start with that.
Remember, this is Vanilla JavaScript so
there will be no dependencies.
You don't need to run npm install,
you don't need anything.
It's just HTML, JavaScript.
And you have also, by the way,
a copy of the slides there in
case you wanna follow along.
>> Male Speaker: Why is it worth
learning PWA apps when true Cross Mobile
solutions like Flutter exist?
>> Maximiliano Firtman: Okay,
so that's a good question.
First, we are talking about different,
let's say nature.
First, you mentioned Flutter, okay?
Flutter these days is actually
compiling as an Android native app.
So you can compile an Android
native app and go to the App Store,
you can compile an IOS app, but
also you can compile a PWA app.
And actually, let me tell you something,
in Google I/O 2024 so
that's the annual event.
There was only one Flutter session,
What's New in Flutter.
And the What's New in Flutter session
actually was under the web track,
not the mobile track,
which was actually really weird.
Actually, the web track was
actually following the web app PWA,
Chrome thing and
Flutter was actually there.
I mean, this is not information,
it's my opinion.
I think that Flutter as a platform
to create native app for
the store,
might not have the brightest future,
I think they're trying to push
Flutter as a PWA platform.
As a way to create PWA.
It creates PWA with web assembly this day,
so it complies to web assembly.
So actually, if you're using Flutter,
you may wanna also learn PWA.
Because everything that we will see
today will actually be on top of your
Flutter application in case you wanna
compile your Flatter to the web platform.
But anyway,
I think that we may go back to that
question at the end of the workshop, okay?
And see the reason, okay?
Because forget about
the PWA part of Flutter,
let's go back to the original
question of being native.
The first situation is that you
are forced to go to the App Store,
which might be something good but
also sometimes it's a problem for
several reasons, legal reasons,
business reasons.
You have to share 30% of the money
you're making if you're making
money with the contents of the app,
with Google or with Apple.
It can be 15%, it depends on the case.
But anyway,
on the web platform you don't need to.
So I think that let's go back to
that question after the workshop and
see if we can together find an answer.